>> Sreenivasan: DEBRIS AND
BODIES FROM THE WRECKAGE OF THE
AIR ASIA JETLINER HAVE BEEN
FOUND IN THE JAVA SEA, REVEALING
THE GRIM FATE OF THOSE ON BOARD
FLIGHT 8501.
BUT STILL MANY QUESTIONS REMAIN
ABOUT WHAT WENT WRONG AND WHY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M HARI
SREENIVASAN.
GWEN IFILL AND JUDY WOODRUFF ARE
AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY.
AS THE U.S. PREPARES TO RESTORE
DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH CUBA,
THE TWO COUNTRIES REMAIN AT ODDS
ABOUT WHAT NEW FREEDOMS WILL
MEAN FOR THE CUBAN PEOPLE.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS WE WANT TO
DO IS SEE HOW FAR WE CAN REALLY
ENCOURAGE CUBANS TO TAKE CONTROL
OF THEIR OWN DESTINY.
WHETHER THAT IS GOING TO EXIST
WITHIN THE CONFINES THAT
PRESIDENT CASTRO HAS OUTLINED, I
REALLY DONT'S KNOW.
>> Sreenivasan: PLUS, A COUPLE
OF BEST-SELLING AUTHORS SHARE
THEIR FAVORITE READS OF 2014.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: WE BEGIN WITH
THAT MISSING AIRLINER IN
INDONESIA.
THE MYSTERY CAME INTO BETTER
FOCUS TODAY WHEN SEARCH TEAMS
FOUND THE REMAINS OF VICTIMS,
AND MANGLED METAL, OFF THE COAST
OF BORNEO.
SHAKEN, GRIEVING RELATIVES OF
THE VICTIMS FILED OUT OF A
CRISIS CENTER IN SURABAYA AFTER
THEIR AGONIZING WAIT ENDED WITH
A JOLT.
A SHORT TIME EARLIER, AS THEY
WATCHED INDESIAONN TELEVISION,
IMAGES OF BODIES AND WRECKAGE
FLASHED ON SCREEN, WITH NO
WARNING.
THE MULTI-NATIONAL SEARCH HAD
FOUND WHAT IT WAS LOOKING FOR IN
THE JAVA SEA, AS INDONESIA'S
NATIONAL SEARCH AND RESCUE CHIEF
CONFIRMED.
>> ( translated ): THE AREA WAS
WHERE THE PLANE CRASHED, AND THE
DEBRIS CAME FROM THE MISSING
PLANE THAT WE HAVE BEEN
SEARCHING FOR.
>> Sreenivasan: THE DRAMA BEGAN
SUNDAY WHEN AIR-ASIA FLIGHT 8501
LEFT SURABAYA, INDONESIA ON A
TWO-HOUR TRIP TO SINGAPORE.
162 PEOPLE, MOSTLY INDONESIANS,
WERE ON BOARD.
BUT THE PLANE DISAPPEARED OFF
RADAR, WITHOUT WARNING, ABOUT
HALFWAY INTO ITS ROUTE,
TRAVELING THROUGH STORMY
WEATHER.
SEARCHERS FOUND THE FIRST DEBRIS
ABOUT TEN MILES FROM THE PLANE'S
LAST-KNOWN LOCATION, IN LESS
THAN 100 FEET OF WATER.
INITIAL EFFORTS BROUGHT BACK A
BLUE SUITCASE, AN OXYGEN TANK
AND AIRCRAFT PARTS MATCHING THE
SERIAL NUMBER OF THE LOST PLANE.
EVEN AFTER THE DISCOVERY, SOME
REFUSED TO GIVE UP ON THE CHANCE
THEIR LOVED ONES MIGHT HAVE
SURVIVED.
>> ( translated ): I STILL HOPE
THAT THEY CAN FIND THE PLANE
AND, FROM THE BOTTOM OF MY
HEART, I WANT THEM TO STILL BE
ALIVE.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT FOR MOST,
THE GRIM REALITY SET IN, AND
INDONESIAN PRESIDENT JOKO WIDODO
ARRIVED AT THE SURABAYA AIRPORT
TO OFFER WHAT COMFORT HE COULD.
>> ( translated ): MY DEEP
CONDOLENCES GO OUT TO THE
FAMILIES OF THE PASSENGERS AND
CREW.
LOSS AND PRAY
THAT THEY ARE GIVEN ALL THE
COURAGE AND STRENGTH TO FACE
THIS TRAGEDY.
>> Sreenivasan: AIR-ASIA'S
C.E.O., TONY FERNANDES, ALSO
SPOKE AGAIN TODAY, EXPRESSING
DEEP REGRETS OVER THE CARRIER'S
FIRST FATAL CRASH.
>> I APOLOGIZE PROFUSELY FOR
WHAT THEY'RE GOING THROUGH.
I AM THE LEADER OF THIS COMPANY
AND I HAVE TO TAKE
RESPONSIBILITY.
IT IS THE WORST FEELING ONE
COULD HAVE BUT WE STY SATRONG
FOR THE FAMILIES OUT THERE TO
ENSURE THAT WE CAN LOOK AFTER
THEM EVEN AFTER THIS INCIDENT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE SEARCH
OPERATION NOW SHIFTS TO
RETRIEVING MORE BODIES AND
FINDING MORE OF THE PLANE.
ABOUT 30 SHIPS, 15 AIRCRAFT, AND
SEVEN HELICOPTERS FROM SIX
COUNTRIES ARE ASSISTING IN THE
EFFORT, AND THE DESTROYER U.S.S.
SAMPSON IS HEADING TO THE SCENE.
DOZENS OF ELITE MILITARY DIVERS
WILL ALSO COMB THE UNDERWATER
SITE, LOOKING ESPECIALLY FOR
THE PLANE'S BLACK BOX RECORDERS.
THEIR DATA MAY TELL EXACTLY WHAT
HAPPENED TO FLIGHT 8501.
JOINING ME NOW IS WALL STREET
JOURNAL REPORTER ANDY PASZTOR.
ANDY, WE JUST RATTLED OFF THESE
DIFFERENT RESOURCES BRINGING TO
BEAR ON THIS SEARCH.
WHAT'S NEXT?
HOW LONG MIGHT IT TAKE?
>> UNDER THE BEST OF
CIRCUMSTANCES, IT COULD BE DAYS
OR WEEKS.
THE WATER IS RELATIVELY SHALLOW.
MUCH SHALLOWER THAN THE PREVIOUS
CRASHES YOU MAY BE AWARE OF SUCH
AS MALAYSIAN 370CIE 370 DISAPPEE
WHERE THEY'RE STILL KOOK LOOKING
AND ALSO CURRENTS TO CONTEND
WITH.
BUT THIS IS A SCENARIO WHERE
INVESTIGATORS AND EXPERTS HOPE
THEY CAN FIND WHAT THEY WANT
RELATIVELY QUICKLY.
>> Sreenivasan: OKAY.
SO HOW DO THEY GO ABOUT PIECING
TOGETHER A CAUSE, EVEN AFTER
AFTER THEY GET THIS BLACK BOX?
>> OF COURSE, THEY WILL
CONSTRUCT A TIME LINE AND TRY TO
DETERMINE PRECISELY WHAT WAS
HAPPENING IN THE COCKPIT AT WHAT
POINT AND, ALSO, THERE WILL BE
RECORDINGS OF WHAT THE PILOTS
WERE SAYING AND DOING.
AND I THINK, TO PUT THIS IN SOME
PERSPECTIVE, AS TRAGIC THIS IS
FOR THE FAMILIES AND FOR THE
AIRLINE, THIS IS PROBABLY NOT
GOING TO BE A SEMINAL
INVESTIGATION.
EXPERTS CALL IT A CLASSIC HIGH
ALTITUDE STALL, HIGH ALTITUDE
UPSET INSTANCE WHICH WAS
PROBABLY EXACERBATED BY STORMS.
BUT I THINK WE SHOULD TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT WHY IT COULD BE
A VERY IMPORTANT INVESTIGATION.
IT COULD BE A TURNING POINT FOR
THE INDUSTRY BECAUSE THIS MIGHT
BE WHAT THEY NEEDED OR WHAT THEY
REQUIRE TO PUT ON TRACKING
SYSTEMS ON ALL AIRCRAFT AND ALSO
TO BE ABLE TO STREAM DATA OFF
AIRCRAFT SO THAT INVESTIGATORS
KNOW WHAT HAPPENED AND WHERE THE
PLANE ENDED MUCH MORE QUICKLY
THAN THEY DO NOW.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE'S ALSO
ALMOST IN THIS COLLECTIVE MOMENT
WHERE THE WORLD WONDERS WHY IS
IT THAT I CAN FIND MY
Smartphone WITH SUCH PRECISION
AND I CAN'T FIND SOMETHING
THAT'S A THOUSAND TIMES AS BIG?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
AND THE INDUSTRY, SO FAR, FOR
THE MOST PART, HAS CALLED
MALAYSIA 370 A ONE-OFF EVENT AND
THE RESPONSE TO THE
DISAPPEARANCE OF THAT AIRCRAFT
WAS A SLOW AND VERY CAUTIOUS
EFFORT TO MAKE SURE AIRLINERS
CAN BE TRACKED EVERYWHERE IN THE
WORLD REGARDLESS OF WHERE
THEY'RE FINDING.
THREE DAYS, THAT'S HOW LONG IT
TOOK TO FIND THIS AIRCRAFT
DEBRIS.
IS THAT TOO LONG AND SHOULD WE
BE LOOKING AT A SYSTEM THAT
ALLOWS INVESTIGATORS AND THE
AIRLINE AND THE FLYING PUBLIC TO
KNOW WHERE A PLANE CRASHED AND
WHAT WAS HAPPENING ON BOARD THE
PLANE MUCH MORE QUICKLY THAN THE
THREE DAYS IT TOOK THIS TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: AND WHAT ABOUT
THE ROLE OF THE U.S. U.S.
SAMSON?
WHAT CAN THAT DO IN A SEARCH
LIKE THIS?
>> I THINK AT THIS POINT IT'S AN
ANCILLARY ROLE BECAUSE I DON'T
BELIEVE THEY HAVE UNDERWATER
SEARCH CAPABILITY OR TECHNOLOGY
ON THAT SHIP, BUT THE U.S.
PROBABLY WILL BE ASKED AND WILL
HELP OUT IN SOME UNDERWATER
SEARCH EFFORTS AS THIS DEVELOPS,
AND THERE ARE ASSETS UNDERWAY TO
THE SITE NOW TO BE ABLE TO FIND3
THE BODIES AND THE BLACK BOX AND
THE PARTS OF THE PLANE THAT MAY
HELP ANSWER WHAT HAPPENED.
>> Sreenivasan: ANDY PASZTOR
OF THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL"
JOINING US TONIGHT, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Sreenivasan: FRESH PROTESTS
ERUPTED IN MOSCOW THIS EVENING,
AFTER A LEADING OPPONENT OF
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
WAS CONVICTED OF FRAUD.
ALEXEI NAVALNY GOT A SUSPENDED
SENTENCE OF THREE AND A HALF
YEARS, BUT HIS BROTHER WAS SENT
TO PRISON.
LATER, NAVALNY WAS SEEN BEING
ROUNDED UP BY POLICE WHEN HE
BROKE THE TERMS OF HIS ONGOING
HOUSE ARREST AND TRIED TO ATTEND
THE RALLY.
THE DEMONSTRATION ITSELF DREW
SEVERAL THOUSAND PEOPLE, WITH
CHANTS OF "FREEDOM!" AND "PUTIN
GO AWAY!" RINGING THROUGH THE
AIR IN RED SQUARE. ( translatedE
FIRST OF ALL BECAUSE I AM
AGAINST ANY REPRESSION, AGAINST
POLITICALLY MOTIVATED CASES AND
PROSECUTION FOR VIEWS.
I THINK EVERY PERSON HAS THE
RIGHT TO EXPRESS HIS OPINION.
>> Sreenivasan: AFTER NEARLY TWO
HOURS, POLE BRICOKE UP THE
PROTESTS AND DETAINED ABOUT 100
OPPOSITION SUPPORTERS.
THE UNITED STATES DENOUNCED THE
CONVICTIONS OF NAVALNY AND HIS
BROTHER AS ANOTHER SIGN OF A
RUSSIAN CRACKDOWN ON INDEPENDENT
VOICES.
THERE'S WORD TODAY OF A
JORDANIAN PILOT WHO'S BEING HELD
BY ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS IN
SYRIA.
MUATH AL KASAESBEH WAS FLYING A
COALITION AIR RAID WHEN HIS
PLANE WENT DOWN LAST WEEK.
NOW, THE ISLAMIC STATE'S
ENGLISH-LANGUAGE, ONLINE
MAGAZINE HAS PUBLISHED A
PURPORTED INTERVIEW WITH THE
CAPTIVE.
IN IT, HE'S ASKED: "DO YOU KNOW
WHAT THE ISLAMIC STATE WILL DO
WITH YOU?"
HE ANSWERS: "YES, THEY WILL KILL
ME."
THE U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL HAS
TURNED BACK A PALESTINIAN PUSH
TO END ISRAELI CONTROL IN THE
WEST BANK AND EAST JERUSALEM BY
2017.
THE VOTE THIS EVENING FELL ONE
VOTE SHORT OF THE NINE NEEDED.
THE RESOLUTION CALLED FOR AN
INDEPENDENT STATE, WITH
PALESTINIANS ARGUING
NEGOTIATIONS WITH ISRAEL HAVE
GONE NOWHERE.
BUT U.S. AMBASSADOR SAMANTHA
POWER CRITICIZED THE PALESTINIAN
EFFORT
>> THE STAGED CONFRONTATION IN
THE U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL WILL
NOT PRI THE PARTIES CLOSER TO
ACHIEVING A TWO-STATE SOLUTION.
WE VOTED AGAINST THIS RESOLUTION
NOT BECAUSE WE ARE INDIFFERENT
THE DAILY HARDSHIPS OR SECURITY
THREATS ENDURED BY PALESTINIANS
AND ISRAELIS BUT BECAUSE WE KNOW
THESE HARDSHIPS WILL NOT CEASE
AND THE THREATS WILL NOT SUBSIDE
UNTIL THE PARTIES REACH A
COMPREHENSIVE SETTLEMENT
ACHIEVED THROUGH NEGOTIATIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE U.S. HAD
BEEN EXPECTED TO VETO THE
RESOLUTION, EVEN IF IT DID PASS.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, THE THIRD-
RANKING REPUBLICAN IN THE U.S.
HOUSE SAID TODAY HE REGRETS
ADDRESSING A WHITE SUPREMACIST
GROUP, IN 2002.
AT THE TIME, MAJORITY WHIP STEVE
SCALISE WAS A STATE LAWMAKER IN
LOUISIANA.
HE INITIALLY SAID HE DID NOT
KNOW THE GROUP'S BACKGROUND.
TODAY, HE SAID: "IT WAS A
MISTAKE, AND I EMPHATICALLY
OPPOSE THE DIVISIVE RACIAL AND
RELIGIOUS VIEWS (THAT) GROUPS
LIKE THESE HOLD."
IN HIS OWN STATEMENT, HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER SAID
SCALISE "MADE AN ERROR IN
JUDGMENT", BUT STILL HAS HIS
FULL CONFIDENCE.
REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN MICHAEL
GRIMM OF NEW YORK HAS ANNOUNCED
HE'S RESIGNING JANUARY 5th.
HE PLEADED GUILTY LAST WEEK TO
TAX EVASION, AFTER HE'D BEEN RE-
ELECTED TO A THIRD TERM.
IN A STATEMENT LAST NIGHT, GRIMM
SAID HE CAN NO LONGER BE
EFFECTIVE IN CONGRESS.
FORMER PRESIDENT GEORGE H. W.
BUSH WAS RELEASED FROM A HOUSTON
HOSPITAL TODAY AFTER A WEEK-LONG
STAY.
A SPOKESMAN SAID HE IS RESTING
COMFORTABLY AT HOME.
MR. BUSH IS NOW 90, AND IS THE
OLDEST LIVING FORMER PRESIDENT.
HE SUFFERS FROM PARKISON'S
DISEASE AND WAS ADMITTED TO THE
HOSPITAL LAST WEEK WITH
SHORTNESS OF BREATH.
ON WALL STREET, STOCKS WERE
DOWN, PARTLY ON PROFIT-TAKING,
AND PARTLY ON WORRIES ABOUT
GREECE.
THE GOVERNMENT THERE HAS CALLED
EARLY ELECTIONS THAT COULD
UNRAVEL AN INTERNATIONAL BAILOUT
DEAL.
FOR THE DAY, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST 55
POINTS, TO CLOSE AT 17,983.
THE NASDAQ FELL 29 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,777.
AND THE S&P 500 DROPPED 10, TO
FINISH AT 2,080.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
HOW WASHINGTON PLANS TO
NORMALIZE RELATIONS WITH HAVANA.
NONPROFITS, BIG AND SMALL, SEEK
TO BOOST THEIR PROFILES AND
CONTRIBUTIONS ONLINE.
TWO BEST SELLING AUTHORS SHARE
THEIR FAVORITE BOOKS OF 2014.
HH SCIGHOOL STUDENTS ON HOW THEY
GET THEIR NEWS AND THE STORIES
THAT MATTERED TO THEM.
AND, A CONVERSATION WITH A LONG-
SERVING MEMBER OF CONGRESS AS HE
PREPARES TO EXIT, STAGE LEFT.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE GREAT
SURPRISES OF 2014 WAS PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S STUNNING ANNOUNCEMENT:
AFTER A MORE THAN 50-YEAR-
STANDOFF, THAT THE U.S. WOULD
REOPEN DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH
CUBA.
TONIGHT, CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
TAKES A CLOSER LOOK AT THE
CHALLENGES AHEAD, AND TALKS WITH
AN AMERICAN DIPLOMAT LEADING THE
CHARGE.
>> WE WILL END AN OUDATED
APPROACH THAT, FOR DECADES, HAS
FAILED TO ADVANCE OUR INTERESTS,
NEITHER THE AMERICAN NOR CUBAN
PEOPLE ARE WELL SERVED BY A
RIGID POLICY THAT IS ROOTED IN
EVENTS THAT TOOK PLACE BEFORE
MOST OF US WERE BORN.
>> Woodruff: AMONG THE CHANGES,
THE PRESIDENT SAID HE  WOULD:
REOPEN THE U.S. EMBASSY IN
HAVANA.
FURTHER EASE U.S. TRAVEL, CREDIT
AND EXPORT LIMITS TO DIRECT U.S.
INVESTMENT TO CUBA'S NEW SMALL
ENTREPENEURIAL CLASS.
HE ALSO URGED CONGRESS TO LIFT
THE 54-YEAR-OLD U.S. ECONOMIC
EMBARGO ON THE ISLAND.
CUBAN PRESIDENT RAUL CASTRO
ISSUED A SIMILAR ANNOUNCEMENT
SIMULTANEOUSLY.
BUT WHAT THIS OPENING WILL MEAN,
IN REALITY, DEPENDS ON HARD-
HEADED NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE
TWO GOVERNMENTS, DUE TO START IN
HAVANA IN MID-JANUARY.
LEADING THE U.S. NEGOTIATING
TEAM WILL BE ROBERTA JACOBSON,
THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE
FOR WESTERN HEMISPHERE AFFAIRS.
WE SPOKE IN HER OFFICE
YESTERDAY.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY JACOBSON,
THANK YOU FOR HAVING US.
>> THANK YOU, MARGARET.
AUNCH THESE TALKS, WHATEAD TO
EVIDENCE ARE YOU LOOKING FOR
THAT THE CUBA GOVERNMENT
BUREAUCRACY IS INTERESTED IN THE
KIND OF OPENING UP PRESIDENT
CASTRO SAID THEY WERE READY TO
DO?
>> I THINK WE'VE SEEN SOME SIGNS
OF THAT ALREADY.
WE'RE HOPEFUL THAT WHEN WE SIT
DOWN IN HAVANA WE'LL HAVE A
BROAD RANGE OF CONVERSATIONS,
BUT STARTING WITH THE
NORMALIZATION.
>> Reporter: IN TERMS OF
OPENING UP THE ECONOMY, A LOT OF
THINGS THE PRESIDENT SAID HE
WANTS TO DO.
THOSE ARE THINGS THAT WILL CHIP
AWAY AT THE ECONOMIC MONOPOLY
THIS CUBAN GOVERNMENT HAS.
>> EXACTLY.
>> Reporter: ARE THEY READY
FOR THAT?
>> I THINK THAT'S A VERY GOOD
QUESTION, MARGARET AND I THINK
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT WE'LL FIND
OUT.
WE CERTAINLY HOPE THAT THE CUBAN
GOVERNMENT WILL ALLOW US TO
ENGAGE WITH THOSE WHO ARE
SELF-EMPLOYED, THOSE WHO ARE
ENTREPRENEURS.
WE CERTAINLY HOPE THAT THE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR WHICH
IS ONE WHERE THE CUBAN
GOVERNMENT HAS SAID THEY'RE
INTERESTED IN MODERNIZING, IN
GIVING MORE ACCESS TO CUBANS, TO
INFORMATION THAT THEY WILL BE
WILLING TO GO AS FAR AS WE CAN
GET OUR BUSINESS SECTOR TO GO.
>> Reporter: WHEN PRESIDENT
CASTRO SPOKE TO I THINK HIS
PARLIAMENT, HE SAID HIS GOAL IS
A PROSPEROUS AND SUSTAINABLE
COMMUNISM.
DOES THAT SOUND LIKE SOMEONE WHO
WANTS TO RETAIN VAL PARTY
CONTROL BUT REVITALIZE THE
ECONOMY.
IS THAT DOABLE?
>> IT SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING THAT
MAY BE IMPOSSIBLE.
I THINK WHEN YOU LOOK AT WHOTS
GOING ON IN CUBA, YOU SEW AN
ECONOMY IN A TAIL SPIN, A MODEL
THAT'S N REOTALLY WORKING AND
THE LIBERALIZATION YOU'VE SEEN
TAKE PLACE, ALTHOUGH MANY PEOPLE
HAVE COMMENTED ON IT, IS VERY,
VERY MINOR, SMALL AND SLOW AND
IS STILL BASED ON ONE PATRON
WHOSE OWN ECONOMIC MODEL IS
FAILING.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS WE
WANT TO DO IS SEE HOW FAR WE CAN
REALLY ENCOURAGE CUBANS TO TAKE
CONTROL OF THEIR OWN DESTINY.
WHETHER THAT IS GOING TO BE ABLE
TO EXIST WITHIN THE CONFINES
THAT PRESIDENT CASTRO HAS
OUTLINED, I REALLY DON'T KNOW.
BUT THAT'S WHY THE NEW POLICY
WAS DESIGNED.
>> MANY CUBAN DISSIDENTS WHO
FOUGHT A LONG FIGHT DOWN THERE
ARE VERY UPSET BY THE
PRESIDENT'S ANNOUNCEMENT.
WHEN THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT
CONTINUES TO SPY ON THEM, TO
RESTRICT THEIR FREEDOM OF SPEECH
AND THEIR FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY,
CAN THE BIEWBEN PEOPLE EXPECT
ANY GREATER FREEDOMS IN THE
SHORT TERM AS A RESULT OF THIS
DEAL?
>> I DON'T KNOW, BUT I WOULD SAY
WE'RE SKEPTICAL AND WE DON'T
HAVE ILLUSIONS ABOUT THIS
GOVERNMENT OR THEIR WILLINGNESS
TO ALLOW THOSE FREEDOMS.
I THINK THEY'RE STILL FIGHTING
THAT FIGHT.
WHAT YOU SEE IS PEOPLE BEGINNING
TO LOSE THEIR FEAR.
YOU SEE PERFORMANCE ARTISTS.
YOU SEE INDEPENDENT LIBRARIANS
AND JOURNALISTS AND PEOPLE
SPEAKING OUT.
THAT'S WHAT WE WANT TO
ENCOURAGE.
BUT THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT THE
GOVERNMENT CONTINUES TO WANT TO
MAINTAIN A LEVEL OF CONTROL AND
A LEVEL OF REPRESSION, EVEN IF
THAT REPRESSION MAY BE
SHORT-TERMED DETENTION OR OTHER
FORMS OF REPRESSION THAT DIFFER
FROM THE WAY IT HAS IN THE PAST,
AND THAT REALLY DOES HAVE TO
END.
>> Reporter: IN THE
NEGOTIATIONS, DID THE U.S. TRY
TO GET ANY GREATER ASSURANCES ON
THIS FRONT?
>> I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS YOU
HAVE TO REMEMBER IS WHAT WAS
NEGOTIATED WAS THE INTELLIGENCE
ASSET FOR THE THREE INTELLIGENCE
AGENTS OF CUBA IN THE UNITED
STATES.
>> Reporter: THE EXCHANGE.
THE OTHER THINGS THAT WERE
DISCUSSED WERE THINGS WE
DISCUSSED WITH THE CUBANS OR
THEY DISCUSSED WITH US BUT THEY
WEREN'T NECESSARILY NEGOTIATED.
>> Reporter: THE CUBAN
GOVERNMENT HAS SAID IT WILL
RELEASE 53 POLITICAL PRISONERS.
HAVE THEY RELEASED ANY OR ALL OF
THEM?
>> THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT SAID
THOSE PEOPLE WILL BE RELEASED AS
THEIR OWN DECISION.
SOME OF THOSE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
RELEASED, FOR EXAMPLE ONE TO
HAVE THE LADIES IN WHITE.
THERE HAVE BEEN OTHERS WHO HAVE
BEEN RELEASED.
WE EXPECT ALL OF THEM WILL BE
RELEASED.
>> Reporter: IS THE CUBAN
GOVERNMENT OBLIGED TO NOTIFY YOU
WHEN THE 53 ARE RELEASED?
>> THERE IS GOD COMMUNICATIONS
ON THE ISLANDS AND AMONG THE
ACTIVISTS WITH OUR INTERSECTION
IN HAVANA SO WE EXPECT TO KNOW
WHEN THE PEOPLE ARE RELEASED.
>> Reporter: YOU SAY THE TALKS
ARE FOCUSED ON THE NORMALIZATION
OF GOVERNMENT TO GOVERNMENT.
PART OF THAT, PRESIDENT OBAMA
SAID, WAS TO OPEN AN EMBASSY IN
HAVE NAVMENT MEMBERS OF THE NEW
CONGRESS BUT MANY DEMOCRATS AS
WELL SAID THEY WILL DO ANYTHING
IN THEIR POWER TO FRUSTRATE THAT
INCLUDING USING THE POWER OF THE
PURSE.
CAN CONGRESS STAND IN THE WAY OF
OPENING AN EMBASSY?
>> WELL, THERE ARE CERTAIN
THINGS WE'LL DO TO TRANSITION
THE INTERSECTION TO THE EMBASSY.
>> Reporter: THE INTERSECTION
ALREADY IN HAVANA.
>> ONE OF THE LARGEST
INTERSECTIONS IN HAVANA.
THERE ARE THINGS WE CAN DO TO
TRANSITION THAT WON'T COST ANY
MONEY.
WE BELIEVE WE'LL BAIBILITYD DO
THAT.
THE CONDUCT OF DIPLOMATIC
RELATIONS IS WITHIN THE
PRESIDENT'S PURVIEW.
WHEN IT COMES TIME FOR THINGS
THAT WILL COST MONEY, OBVIOUSLY,
WE'LL HAVE TO DISCUSS THOSE WITH
CONGRESS.
BUT THE TRANSITION TO AN EMBASSY
IS SOMETHING THAT IS WITHIN THE
PRESIDENT'S POWER TO DO.
>> Reporter: SO A FUNDAMENTAL
CRITIQUE TO HAVE THE PRESIDENT'S
DECISION TO UPUP RELATIONS IS
CUBA IS GASPING FOR AIR HERE AND
THEY'RE JUST ON THE VERGE OF
LOSING THIS SUBSIDIZED OIL FROM
VENEZUELA AND ESSENTIALLY THE
UNITED STATES IS THROWING IT A
LIFELINE THAT WILL ENABLE THE
CASTRO COMMUNIST REGIME TO
SUSTAIN ITSELF.
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK THAT'S
TRUE.
FOR ONE THING, THE EMBARGO IS
STILL IN PLACE.
FOR UTE THING, IF YOU LOOK AT
WHAT THE PRESIDENT HAS
AUTHORIZED, WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
SUPPORTING SELF-EMPLOYED,
SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURS,
SUPPORTING THE INTELLIGENCE
SECTOR WHICH IS INFORMATION AND
PROVIDING CUBANS WITH ACCURATE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE WORLD,
PROVIDING THE ABILITY FOR CUBANS
TO MEET REAL AMERICANS IN
HUMANITARIAN MISSIONS, CHURCH
GROUPS, ATHLETICS.
THESE ARE NOT THINGS THAT ARE
NECESSARILY GOING TO ALLOW THE
CUBAN GOVERNMENT TO SURVIVE OR
NOT SURVIVE OR THE CUBAN MODEL
TO SURVIVE OR NOT SURVIVE.
THESE ARE THE KINDS
THAT GREATLY EMPOWER CUBAN CIVIL
SOCIETY AND CUBAN INDIVIDUALS TO
HELP GIVE THEM A SENSE OF THEIR
OWN FUTURE AND ENABLE THEM TO
GET THE RESOURCES THEY NEED TO
GET GREATER CONTROL OVER THEIR
LIVES.
>> Reporter: ASSISTANT
SECRETARY JACOBSON, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, MARGARET.
>> Sreenivasan: SOCIAL MEDIA HAS
REVOLUTIONIZED HOW WE STAY IN
TOUCH WITH FRIENDS AND FAMILY.
HOW WE SHOP AND GET OUR NEWS.
THIS YEAR, THE SUCCESS OF THE
VIRAL ICE BUCKET CHALLENGE TO
RAISE MONEY TO SUPPORT A.L.S.
RESEARCH HAS PEOPLE ASKING
WHETHER HOW WE GIVE IS DUE FOR
ITS OWN DIGITAL MAKEOVER.
YESTERDAY, WE CHECKED IN ON HOW
THE $220 MILLION RAISED BY THE
ICE BUCKET CHALLENGE IS BEING
PUT TO WORK.
TODAY, IN THE SECOND OF A SERIES
OF CONVERSATIONS ABOUT DIGITAL
PHILANTHROPY, WE LOOK AT HOW
SOCIAL PLATFORMS ARE CHANGING
THE WAY WE GIVE.
JOINING ME ARE STACY PALMER,
EDITOR OF "THE CHRONICLE OF
PHILANTHROPY."
AND AMY SAMPLE WARD, C.E.O. OF
THE NONPROFIT TECHNOLOGY NETWORK
AND CO-AUTHOR OF "SOCIAL CHANGE
ANYTIME, EVERYWHERE."
STACY, I WANT TO ASK, WAS THE
ICE BUCKET CHALLENGE A WATERSHED
MOMENT OR A COLD WATERSHED
MOMENT?
>> IT WAS QUITE THE WATERSHED.
EIVES WAS DOING IT.
IT WAS MIRACULOUS.
NOBODY THOUGHT SOCIAL MEDIA
COULD RAISE MONEY AT ALL AND
MANY KNOWN NONPROFITS WERE
FRUSTRATED.
WE RECEIVED AN EMAIL SAYING,
DON'T WORRY THAT YOU'RE NOT
RAISING MONEY.
THEN ALL OF A SUDDEN, EVERYBODY
WAS JOINING AND GOT ENGAGED.
IT WOULDN'T HAVE HAPPENED
WITHOUT THINGS LIKE Facebook
SPREADING THE MESSAGE.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS A
CAMPAIGN THAT CAN BE REPLICATED?
IT HAD AN ORGANIC FEEL WHEN IT
BEGAN WHICH IS WHAT GOT PEOPLE
INTERESTED INSTEAD OF AN EMAIL
IN YOUR BOX THAT SAID DUMP A
BUDGET OF ICE WATER ON YOURSELF.
>> I THINK A LOT OF
ORGANIZATIONS ARE FEELING
PRESSURE FROM THEIR BOARDS AND
FUNDRAISING TEAMS SAYING WE HAVE
TO PUT A PLAN IN PLACE AND
CREATE THE NEXT ICE BUCKET
CHALLENGE.
WHAT MADE IT SUCCESSFUL FROM
STACY'S POINT, IT WAS SHAREABLE
CAMPAIGN.
YOU POSTED A VIDEO, SOMETHING ON
Facebook, AND YOUR FRIENDS
WANTED TO LIKE IT, COMMENT, AND
MAKE ALL THEIR OTHER FRIENDS
DUMP ICE WATER ON THEIR HEAD.
SO FINDING SOMETHING THAT IS IN
YOUR EITHER CAMPAIGN STRATEGY OR
IN YOUR MESSAGE IN GENERAL THAT
CAN BE SHARED, BUT IT ALSO IS
REALLY FUN.
IT'S ABOUT THE PEOPLE
PARTICIPATING.
IT'S NOT ABOUT THE ORGANIZATION.
>> STACY, YOU MENTIONED
Facebook EARLIER AND SO DID
AMY.
WHAT IS THE Facebook EFFECT ON
PHILANTHROPY IF IT CAN BE
MEASURED UP TILL NOW.
>> UP TILL THE ICE BUCKET, IT
WAS GREAT FOR SHARING
INFORMATION AND SAYING I'M
RUNNING IN A RACE AND WILL YOU
SUPPORT ME BUT IT REALLY WASN'T
BRINGING IN ANY MONEY.
GROUPS WERE SPENDING TIME
SCRATCHING HEADS TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT TO DO AND I
THINK THEY STILL ARE, CAN
Facebook AND TWITTER HELP,
WHAT DO THE SOCIAL MEDIA TOOLS
DO IN TERMS OF CONNECTING PEOPLE
AND SPREAD THE MESSAGE, BUT WHAT
NONPROFITS REALLY NEED IS CASH
TO RUN ORGANIZATIONS SO AT A
CERTAIN POINT SPREADING THE
MESSAGE IS NOT ENOUGH.
>> WHAT CAN AN ORGANIZATION DO
OR SUCCESSFUL ONES DO TO CONVERT
THAT FROM Facebook BEING A
MARKETING TOOL TO ACTUALLY
GETTING PEOPLE TO CONTRIBUTE?
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT THEY NEED AT
THE END OF THE YEAR OR THE DAY.
>> SURE, AND I THINK PART OF
THAT IS REALLY RECOGNIZING WHO'S
ON Facebook.
DO YOU HAVE PEOPLE ON YOUR
Facebook PAGE BECAUSE YOU'RE
AN ORGANIZATION THAT DOES LOTS
OF EVENTS AND PEOPLE ARE ON
THERE TO SEE THE PHOTOS AND
ENGAGE WITH YOU AROUND EVENTS?
WE'LL THEN FIGURE OUT HOW THOSE
EVENTS HOOK INTO FUNDRAISING BUT
IF YOU HAVE INSTEAD A COMMUNITY
ON Facebook THERE FOR YOUR
MISSION AND STORIES, PROMOTING
GIVING AND PROMOTING EVENTS MAY
NOT BE WHAT HACKS THEM IN AND
BEING REALISTIC.
THE PEOPLE ON YOUR EMAIL LIST
ARE NOT ALL THE SAME PEOPLE ON
YOUR Facebook PAGE, NOT THE
SAME PEOPLE ON YOUR TWITTER
LIST.
IT'S ALL DIFFERENT COMPONENTS
WITHIN YOUR COMMUNITY.
>> STACY, IS THERE KIND OF A
BLANKET RULE OR IT SEEMS LIKE
YOU'RE ALMOST THREADING A NEEDLE
TO FIND THE BALANCE, AND IT CAN
BE DIFFERENT FOR DIFFERENT
ORGANIZATIONS OF DIFFERENT SIZES
AND DIFFERENT CAUSES.
>> VERY MUCH SO.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT'S SO
FRUSTRATING FOR PEOPLE IS
THERE'S NOT ONE RECIPE BUT
THAT'S WHAT THE WHOLE POINT IS.
BUT RESEARCHERS ARE LOOKING AT
WHAT WORKS AND AN INTERESTING
FINDING, IF YOU DON'T HAVE A BIG
SOCIAL NETWORK, YOU'RE BETTER AT
RAISING MONEY BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE
PAYING ATTENTION TO YOU.
WE MIGHT THINK, GO TO SOMEONE
WITH TONS OF FRIENDS ON
Facebook, THAT MIGHT NOT BE
THE WAY.
IT MIGHT BE ONE OF THE MORE
AUTHENTIC MESSAGES THAT WORKS
AND WHY THE ICE BUCKET THING
TOOK OFF.
SOMEONE WHO KNEW SOMEONE WHO HAD
A.L.S. AND TALKED ABOUT IT AND
HAD A CONNECTION TO THE CAUSE.
IT NEEDS TO BE PRNL IN SOME KIND
OF WAY.
I THINK IF IT HAD JUST BEEN A
FUN THING, IT WOULDN'T HAVE
WORKED.
THAT WAS AN INGREDIENT OF WHY IT
WORKED, BUT IT WAS TRYING TO
EMULATE HOW IT FEELS WHEN PEOPLE
HAVE A.L.S. AND THEY SUDDENLY
LEARNED ABOUT A DISEASE MANY
HADN'T HEARD OF AND THEY LEARNED
ABOUT THIS DISEASE.
SO IT WAS A GREAT COMBINATION.
REMEMBER THE POTATO SALAD THING?
THIS GUY HAD THIS IDEA HE WANTED
TO MAKE POTATO SALAD AND RAISED
TONS OF MONEY.
SO A NONPROFIT IN ST. LOUIS GOT
FRUSTRATED AND SAID, I'M GOING
TO RAISE MONEY FOR PEOPLE WHO
GOT HUNGRY, A BETTER CAUSE, AND
HE WASN'T ABLE TO RAISE VERY
MUCH MONEY AT ALL.
IT'S FLUKY WHY SOME THINGS WORK
AND SOME THINGS DON'T.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE A
CULTURAL OR GENERATIONAL GIFT IN
HOW WE CONSIDER GIVING?
SEEMS A LOT OF MILLENNIALS ARE
FINE WITH GIVING $5 OR
$10 THROUGHOUT THE YEAR IN
DIFFERENT CAUSES BECAUSE IT'S
RIGHT ON THEIR PHONE, VERY EASY
TO GIVE, AND MAYBE THEY'RE NOT
THINKING ABOUT IT AS MUCH AS
HERE'S THE END OF THE YEAR,
HERE'S MY $200 TO DOCTORS
WITHOUT BORDERS OR UNICEF.
>> AND I THINK WHAT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT ABOUT WHAT YOU JUST
SAID IS CAUSES, NOT NECESSARILY
NONPROFITS.
IF THERE IS AN ISSUE THAT
SOMEONE IS PASSIONATE ABOUT,
WHETHER IT'S A REALLY LARGE
BEING COVERED IN THE NEWS
POLITICAL ISSUE OR SOMETHING IN
THEIR HOMETOWN, THEY FEEL
CONNECTED TO THAT CAUSE, AND THE
IMPACT THAT ULTIMATELY THEY WANT
TO SEE HAPPEN, AND NOT
NECESSARILY THE SAME KIND OF
TRADITIONAL RELATIONSHIP WITH AN
ORGANIZATION THAT MAY HAVE A
MISSION FOCUSED ON THAT BUT
THEY'RE NOT GIVING EVERY YEAR,
LIKE YOU SAID, AT THE END OF THE
YEAR TO THE SAME ORGANIZATION.
THEY'RE FEELING LIKE IN THIS
MOMENT THIS CAMPAIGN ASKED FOR
MY SUPPORT.
DOESN'T MATTER IF IT'S A
NONPROFIT, POLITICAL
ORGANIZATION, A COMMUNITY GROUP,
I WANT TO GIVE $10 AND I WANT TO
FEEL LIKE MY $10 WAS IMPORTANT,
NOTICED BY THEM AND MADE A
DIFFERENCE.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DOES A
FIGURE ORGANIZATION CREATE THAT
PERSONAL TOUCH BESIDES JUST
SENDING SOMETHING IN THE MAIL TO
ME?
>> A LOT OF GROUPS ARE TRYING TO
TAP VOLUNTEERS TO REACH OUT TO
FRIENDS TO MAKE IT PERSONAL.
YOU CAN'T SAY I'M AT THE RED
CROSS HEADQUARTERS AND GOING TO
SEND THE MESSAGE, BUT I'M GOING
TO FIND THE FOLKS.
IT TAKES TIME BUT IT'S MORE
EFFECTIVE IN GETTING OUT TO
PEOPLE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE BIG
MILLION-DOLLAR PUT MY NAME ON
THE SIDE OF A MUSEUM BRINGS
GIFTS, BUT I TAKE ONLINE IS
GROWING.
>> IT IS GROWING.
WHAT WE SEE IN RESEARCH IS EMAIL
IS STILL THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
REGENERATOR.
THE PIECE THAT IS DRIVING ASKS
FOR ONLINE DONATIONS.
BEYOND EMAIL, THERE ARE SO MANY
VARIABLES.
HOW DID THEY FIND YOUR WEB SITE?
WAS IT ON TWITTER?
DID THEY CLICK THROUGH BECAUSE
THEY ALREADY FOLLOW YOU OR SEE A
RETWEET FROM A RANDOM PERSON?
ON A HASH TAG THERE'S SO MANY
OTHER VARIABLES, SO FIGURING OUT
THE OPPORTUNITIES AND FIGURING
OUT WHO THE MEMBERS ARE, WHETHER
ON EMAIL AND PERSONALIZE THE
EMAIL, OR YOU USE IT AS A
CONSTANT TOUCH POINT SO WHEN YOU
TAKE THE PERSON OUT TO LUNCH OR
BRING THE PEOPLE TOGETHER IN
THEIR ANNUAL GALAH, THEY'VE
ALREADY HEARD YOUR STORY AND
TALKED TO YOU FOR A NUMBER OF
TIMES AND THEY MAY WILL B READY
FOR THE ASK, WHETHER IT'S
$100,000, $1,000 OR $10.
>> Sreenivasan: AMY SAMPLE
WARD AND SACY PALMER, THANKS SO
MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: JEFFREY BROWN
RECENTLY SAT DOWN AT A
WASHINGTON, D.C. BOOK STORE WITH
TWO WELL-KNOWN AUTHORS, FOR A
DIVE INTO SOME OF THEIR FAVORITE
READS OF 2014.
>> Brown: I'M HERE AT POLITICS
AND PROSE BOOK STORE IN
WASHINGTOWASHINGTON, D.C. AND JY
BEST-SELLING AUTHORS ANN
PATCHETT AND DANIEL PINK.
WE'VE ASKED YOU TO COME UP WITH
FAVORITES OF THE YEAR.
ANN?
>> GOT A LOT THIS YEAR.
BROWN GIRL DREAMING BY JAQUELINE
WOODSON IS ACTUALLY A MIDDLE
SCHOOL BOOK BUT I'M TERRIBLE
ABOUT READING MIDDLE SCHOOL
BOOKS, YOUNG ADULT NOVELS.
>> Brown: NORMALLY YOU DON'T
READ THEM.
>> NO.
I PICKED THIS UP, JACQUELINE WAS
BORN IN 1963, GROWN UP PARTIALLY
IN BROOKLYN.
IT'S ABOUT A YOUNG WOMAN IN LIFE
IN VARIOUS SETTINGS.
THE BOOK IS WRITTEN IN VERSE AND
JUST GIVES A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT
OF SPACE FOR THE READER TO ENTER
INTO THE EXPERIENCE.
GREAT FOR ADULTS, GREAT FOR KIDS
AND JUST WON THE NATIONAL BOOK
AWARD.
>> Brown: DANIEL?
SO MY BOOK OF THE YEAR IS
THIS BOOK, DATA-CLISM, WHO WE
ARE WHEN WE THINK NOBODY'S
WATCHING.
THIS IS THE GUY WHO FOUNDED A
SITE CALLED OKAY CUPID.
IT'S A DATING SITE.
HE HAS ACCESS THE MASSIVE
AMOUNTS OF DATA ABOUT WHAT WE
REALLY THINK, WHAT WE REALLY
BELIEVE, WHO WE REALLY LIKE, WHO
WE REALLY FIND ATTRACTIVE.
SO THIS BOOK GIVES US INCREDIBLE
REVELATIONS ABOUT HOW PEOPLE
REALLY BEHAVE ON MATTERS OF
LOVE, ON MATTERS OF RACE, ON
MATTER OF POLITICS.
>> Brown: THIS IS VERY MUCH IN
THE NEWS THESE DAYS, OF COURSE?
EVERY DAY SEEMS LIKE WE'RE
LOOKING AT SOME DATA ISSUE, NOT
ALL BENIGN, BY THE WAY.
>> YOU MAKE A GOOD ARGUMENT.
DATA AND NUMBERS ARE A FORM OF
NARRATIVE.
THEY PUT TOGETHER A BEAUTIFUL
STORY.
ONE OF MY FAVORITES IS TWO
QUESTIONS THAT BETTER PREDICT
WHETHER COUPLES WILL CONNECT ARE
THESE, OKAY -- I COULD ASK YOU.
I'M ALREADY MARRIED BUT I'LL ASK
YOU THE QUESTION.
DO YOU LIKE SCARY MOVIES?
>> NO.
HAVE YOU EVER TRAVELED TO
ANOTHER COUNTRY ALONE?
>> YES.
SO WE ACTUALLY COULD BE
COMPATIBLE FOR MARRIAGE.
THERE'S A HIGHER STANDARD,
BELIEVE ME, BUT THOSE ARE THE
TWO QUESTIONS THAT MORE THAN ANY
OTHER QUESTIONS PREDICT WHETHER
TWO PEOPLE ON A DATING SITE WILL
GET TOGETHER.
>> AND THOSE ARE YOUR ANSWERS
FOR THOSE TWO THINGS?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WOW.
>> Brown: YOUR NEXT BOOK, ANN
PATCHETT.
>> CAN'T WE TALK ABOUT SOMETHING
MORE PLEASANT BY ROZ CHAST AT
THE NEW YORKER.
SHE TALKS ABOUT CARING FOR HER
AGING PARENTS.
IT'S DONE AS A GRAPHIC NOVEL.
>> Brown: ONE A LOT OF PEOPLE
HAVE THE EXPERIENCE OF.
>> MY LINE IS IF YOU HAVE
PARENTS, HAD PARENTS OR IF YOU
EVER KNEW SOMEONE WHO HAD
PARENTS, THIS IS AN APPROPRIATE
BOOK FOR YOU.
WHAT SHE GETS DOWN ON PAPER, THE
EXPERIENCE OF WATCHING YOUR
LOVED ONES  OLD, IT'S SO
HONEST, IT'S CRINGE-INDUCING,
BUT IT'S ALSO HYSTERICAL.
>> THIS BOOK HERE, WHAT I LIKE
IS THE MODESTY OF THE TITLE.
IT'S CALLED THE MEANING OF HUMAN
EXISTENCE.
IN FOOTBALL TERMS, THIS GUY IS
THROWING LONG.
I ADMIRE THAT.
THIS IS WHICH IAN WILSON, WON
TWO PULITZER PRIZES, A CAREER
OUT OF STUDYING ANTS.
THIS BOOK IS SORT OF LIKE A
VICTORY LAP, SORT OF THE
GREATEST HITS AND VICTORY LAPS
OF IAN WILSON.
EVERY TIME I READ A CHAPTER, I
HAD TO STOP.
I HAD TO THINK ABOUT IT.
SOME WAS DISTURBING, SOME
ENLIGHTENING.
HUMAN BEINGS, HE PUTS US --
HELPS US UNDERSTAND OUR PLACE IN
THE UNIVERSE, SHOWS US THE
CONNECTION BETWEEN HOW SCIENCE
UNDERSTANDS THE WORLD AND HOW
HUMANITIES UPS THE WORLD AND
BASICALLY TELLS US OUR SITTING
HERE TODAY IS THE PRODUCT OF
RANDOM CONDITIONS AND NATURAL
SELECTION THAT COULD HAVE EASILY
GONE ANOTHER WAY.
SO IT'S A REALLY PROFOUND,
INTERESTING BOOK BY ONE OF THE
REALLY GREAT SCIENTISTS OF OUR
TIME.
>> YOU'RE REALLY MAKING ME WANT
TO READ THESE BOOKS.
>> HE'S A GOOD WRITER.
HERE'S WHAT WE SAYS ABOUT THE
EARTH.
HE SAYS, EARTH RELATES TO THE
UNIVERSE -- SORT OF PUTTING US
IN OUR PLACE -- EARTH RELATES TO
THE UNIVERSE AS THE SECOND
SEGMENT OF THE LEFT AN TINA OF
AN APHID SITTING ON A FLOWER
PEDAL IN A GARDEN IN NEW JERSEY
FOR A FEW HOURS THIS AFTERNOON.
>> WOW.
IF YOU DON'T FEEL SMALL AFTER
THAT, HAPPY HOLIDAYS.
>> YEAH.
SO IT'S VERY VIVID AND
THOUGHTFUL.
>> Brown: HE HAS US MARRIED,
WHY WE MARRIED AND WHY WE'RE
HERE ON EARTH.
>> AND IT'S NOT VERY IMPORTANT
AND IS GOING TO BE OVER LIKE
THAT, THIS MARRIAGE.
>> Brown: WHAT ELSE DO YOU
HAVE, ANN?
>> MIRA COLEMAN (PHONETIC) DOES
BEAUTIFUL WORK FOR THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" AS WE ALL KNOW.
THIS BOOK STARTED OUT BECAUSE
SHE WAS HIRED TO CURATE A SHOW
FROM HER FAVORITE THINGS FROM
THE COOPER HEWLETT MUSEUM AND
PICKS THESE BEAUTIFUL ITEMS BUT
IT ALSO BECOMES THE STORY OF HER
LIFE AND THE THINGS SHE LOVES
AND DOESN'T LOVE.
IT'S A VERY DIFFERENT KIND OF
VISUAL NARRATIVE READING
EXPERIENCE, GREAT GIFT, GORGEOUS
BOOK AND SOMETHING I THINK YOU
WOULD COME BACK TO AGAIN AND
AGAIN OVER TIME.
>> SURE LOOKS NICE.
YEAH, IT IS.
BEAUTIFUL.
DO YOU THINK THE FORM OF THE
BOOKS IS ITS POWER?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THIS ONE B DOESN'T EVEN HAVE
PICTURES.
>> I'M A LITTLE SLOWER.
I LIKE PICTURES.
THIS TIME OF YEAR, AGAIN, I
REALLY AM THINKING ABOUT BACKS
THAT YOU WILL READ MORE THAN
ONCE, THAT YOU WILL COME BACK TO
ALL YEAR LONG.
>> Brown: ONE MORE.
THIS IS A BACH THAT CAME OUT
IN PAPERBACK THIS YEAR, IN HARD
COVER IN 2013 BUT PAPERBACK THIS
YEAR CALLED "DRUNK TANK PINK."
>> Brown: OF COURSE, YOU SAW
THE PINK.
>> DRUNK TANK PINK IS NO
RELATION.
SO GET THAT OUT OF THE WAY.
THIS IS A BOOK ABOUT SOCIAL
SCIENCE AND A YOUNG SOCIAL
PSYCHOLOGIST AT N.Y.U.
HE GOES THROUGH RESEARCH ON HOW
WE'RE AFFECTED BY THINGS WE
BARELY NOTICE -- SMELLS IN THE
AIR, COLORS AROUND US, MERELY
THE PRESENCE OF OTHERPLVES THE E
OF THE CLASSIC EXPERIMENTS IN
SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY WHERE THEY
FOUND THAT IN A STUDY OF A NAVY
PRISON, PLACES WHERE THEY TOOK
SAILORS THAT WERE DRUNK, GETTING
ROWDY AND THROW THEM IN PRISON.
THEY FOUND THAT WHEN THEY
PAINTED THE PRISON WALLS A
CERTAIN COLOR AND THE PAINT-ON
COLOR IS BAKER MILLER PINK, IT
MEL LOAD THEM OUT.
IT'S CALLED A NON-DRUG
ANESTHETIC.
IT MEL LOAD THEM OUT, SLOWED
THEM DOWN AND TOOK AWAY THEIR
AGGRESSION.
AND SINCE THEN THIS COLOR HAS
BEEN USED IN JUVENILE DETENTION
FACILITIES, SOME FOOTBALL TEAMS
HAVE PAINTED THEIR OPPONENTS'
LOCKER ROOMS WITH THIS COLOR TO
MAKE THEM LESS AGGRESSIVE.
IT SHOWS THE POWER OF COLOR AND
SMELLS AND EVEN WEATHER TO SHAPE
OUR BEHAVIOR IN WAYS WE'LL
BARELY EVEN UNDERSTAND.
>> Brown: ONE QUICK LAST ONE.
LAST ONE, MY FAVORITE BOOK OF
THE YEAR, "DEEP DOWN DARK:  33
MEN BURIED IN A CHILEAN MINE AND
WHO SET THEM FREE."
HECTOR TO TOBAR TELL US WHAT'S
THE MEANING OF LIFE, WHAT IS
FATE, WHO WE ARE WHEN PRESSED
TARRED DEATH FOR AN EXTENDED
PERIOD OF TIME.
IT'S TERRIFIC.
>> Brown: FOR NOW, ANN
PATCHETT, DANIEL PINK.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU CAN FIND THE
REST OF JEFF'S CONVERSATION WITH
ANN PATCHETT AND DANIEL PINK AT
pbs.org/newshour.
JOIN US AGAIN TOMORROW NIGHT,
WHEN JEFF WILL TAKE A LOOK AT
THE BEST MOVIES OF THE YER.A
>> Sreenivasan: NOW, A DIFFERENT
TAKE ON THE YEAR THAT WAS.
JUDY WOODRUFF RECENTLY TALKED TO
SEVERAL TEENAGERS ABOUT THE
STORIES THAT CAUGHT THEIR EYES
IN 2014, AND EXPLORED HOW
TECHNOLOGY AFFECTS WHAT THEY SEE
AND HEAR ABOUT THE NEWS.
>> Woodruff: NEWSHOUR EXTRA, OUR
WEBSITE FOR TEACHERS AND
STUDENTS, HAS PARTNERED WITH
GOOGLE FOR WHAT WE'RE CALLING
THE "MY ZEITGEIST" YEAR-IN-
REVIEW CONTEST.
MORE THAN 1,000 STUDENTS FROM
AROUND THE WORLD CREATED DIGITAL
MASHUPS, IMAGES AND VIDEOS
EDITED TOGETHER, HIGHLIGHTING
THE MOST IMPORTANT STORIES OF
2014.
WE DON'T KNOW WHO WON YET.
THAT WON'T BE ANNOUNCED UNTIL
MIDNIGHT, DECEMBER 31st.
BUT IN THE MEANTIME, TO FIND OUT
MORE ABOUT HOW YOUNG PEOPLE VIEW
CURRENT EVENTS, WE'VE INVITED
THREE STUDENTS WHO ENTERED THE
CONTEST FROM T.C. WILLIAMS HIGH
SCHOOL IN ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA:
RONA IKRAM PUTRI, EVAN WILLIAMS,
AND SHAYLA BROWN.
THEIR TEACHER, MARK EATON, ALSO
JOINS US.
FIRST, HERE'S A CLIP OF ONE OF
THEIR ENTRIES, TO GIVE YOU ONE
IDEA OF HOW YOUNG PEOPLE VIEW
THE NEWS:
DEREK JETER!
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
>> THE FIRST PATIENT DIAGNOSED
WITH EBOLA IN THE UNITED STATES
HAS DIED OF EBOLA IN A DALLAS
HOSPITAL.
>> Woodruff: SO EVAN WILLIAMS
LETS START WITH YOU, THAT WAS A
CLIP FROM YOUR VIDEO.
HOW DID YOU DECIDE WHAT WERE THE
MOST IMPORTANT STORIES, HOW DID
YOU PUT THAT TOGETHER?
>> I KIND OF THINK OF STORIES
THAT HAVE THE MOST IMPACT, SO A
GOOD WAY TO MEASURE THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT BECAME A
HOUSEHOLD DISCUSSION, LIKE A
UNIVERSAL DISCUSSION, FOR
EXAMPLE THE EBOLA OUTBREAK,
EVERYONE WAS TALKING ABOUT THAT,
THE WORLD CUP, EVERYONE WAS
TALKING ABOUT THAT.
>> Woodruff: NOW SHAYLA, SHAYLA
BROWN, HOW DID YOU DECIDE WHAT
WERE THE MOST IMPORTANT STORIES?
>> OUR JOURNALISM CLASS MADE A
LIST OF THE HUGE STORIES OF
2014, SO I USED THIS AND I DID
RESEARCH LIKE EVAN DID AND MY
MOM HELPED ME WITH THE PROJECT A
LOT TOO SO I GOT A LOT OF GROWN-
UPS INPUT TO IT.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU GET YOUR
NEWS IN GENERAL?
>> I HAVE APPS ON MY PHONE THAT
I GET ALERTS OCCASIONALLY WHEN
THERE'S SOMETHING HUGE IN THE
NEWS THAT HAPPENS.
>> Woodruff: RONA, WHAT ABOUT
YOU, HOW DID YOU DECIDE WHAT
WERE THE MOST IMPORTANT STORIES?
>> BASICALLY FOR ME, IN THE NEWS
THERE ARE TWO NECESSARY FACTORS.
THE FIRST IS ITS IMPORTANCE, THE
SECOND IS ITS INTERESTING OR
NOT.
I READ NEWSPAPER EVERY DAY WHICH
I THINK IS A GOOD HABIT.
I THINK PERSONALLY AND ALSO WHAT
SHAYLA DOES.
I LOOK IT UP ON THE INTERNET.
AND ALSO AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
JOURNALISM CLASS MR. EATON WILL
SAY "WHAT'S GOING ON OUT THERE?"
AND THE STUDENTS WILL RAISE
THEIR HAND AND THEY WILL TELL
ABOUT WHAT THEY HAVE FOUND
EITHER IN NEWSPAPER TELEVISION
OR RADIO.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU ALL GET A
CHANCE TO TALK ABOUT IT?
>> YES SO WE ALL GET A CHANCE TO
TALK ABOUT IT.
>> Woodruff: WE SHOULD SAY RONA
IS AN EXCHANGE STUDENT FROM
INDONESIA, SO THIS IS A
PARTICULARLY INTERESTING
EXPERIENCE FOR YOU IN THE UNITED
STATES.
>> YES
>> Woodruff: MARK EATON, YOU'RE
THE TEACHER OF THIS CLASS,
YOU'RE HEAD OF THE ENGLISH
DEPARTMENT AT T.C. WILLIAMS.
IN THE EIGHT YEARS YOU'VE BEEN
TEACHING JOURNALISM IN HOW YOUNG
PEOPLE GET THEIR NEWS.
>> WELL, FIRST THANK YOU FOR
HAVING US.
WHAT I'VE NOTICED IS THE
STUDENTS SEEM TO BE GETTING
THEIR NEWS WITH THE RISE OF
SOCIAL MEDIA, STUDENTS SEEM TO
BE GETTING THEIR NEWS FROM A
WIDE VARIETY OF SOURCES.
AND I'VE NOTICED THERE'S A
PARTICULAR ATTRACTION TO IRONIC
NEWS.
THE STEVEN COLBERT, JON STEWART,
JOHN OLIVER.
THESE RESONATE WITH THE STUDENTS
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU SEE THAT
EVAN, HOW DO YOU GET YOUR NEWS?
BEFORE YOU STARTED THIS
JOURNALISM CLASS HOW WERE YOU
GETTING YOUR NEWS?
>> MOSTLY ITS JUST TWITTER,
BECAUSE TWITTER IT'S LIKE YOU
CAN FOLLOW THE CERTAIN PAGES YOU
WANT, THE CERTAIN AREAS OF NEWS
THAT INTEREST, YOU CAN JUST
SCROLL DOWN.
>> Woodruff: RONA WHAT ABOUT
YOU?
IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU'RE GETTING
NEWS FROM A LOT OF PLACES.
YOU MENTIONED NEWSPAPERS,
ONLINE.
WHAT ABOUT YOUR FRIENDS?
HOW DO YOU SEE THEM GETTING THE
NEWS AND ARE THEY TYPICAL?
>> THE TYPICAL TEENAGER RIGHT
NOW USUALLY GETS THE NEWS FROM
TWITTER.
THEY FOLLOW CERTAIN ACCOUNTS
THAT PROVIDE NEWS.
ITS REALLY USEFUL SO WHEN THE
TEENAGERS ARE USING THEIR PHONE
IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT THEY DON'T
CARE ABOUT THE WORLD-- THEY DO.
BUT IT'S ONLY IN DIFFERENT WAY
THEY KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON OUT
THERE IN THIS WORLD ACTUALLY.
>> Woodruff: IS THAT WHAT YOU'RE
SEEING MARK EATON?
AS THE TEACHER DO YOU THINK
THEY'RE LEARNING ABOUT THE WORLD
BY THE SOURCES THAT THEY CHOOSE?
>> I DO.
I THINK SO AND ITS CERTAINLY
SOMETHING WE STRESS IN THE
CLASS.
WE TRY TO INCREASE THE ELEMENT
OF CURIOSITY ABOUT WHAT'S GOING
ON.
OUR CLASS IN SOME WAYS IS A
CITIZENSHIP CLASS.
WE'RE REALLY TRYING TO... THE
QUESTION WE TRY TO ASK IS ARE
YOU GOING TO BE A CONSUMER OR A
CITIZEN?
AND IF YOU'RE INTERESTED IN NEWS
AND UNDERSTAND THE IMPORTANCE OF
NEWS, THAT'S A STEP ON THE ROAD
TO CITIZENSHIP.
>> Woodruff: DOES THE NEWS THIS
YEAR MAKE YOU FEEL UPLIFTED
COUNTRY, OR DOES ITS ARE GOING
LEAVE YOU WORRIED ABOUT THE
WORLD?
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THAT?
>> I THINK YOU COULD GO BOTH
WAYS WITH THAT.
THERE IS SO MANY THINGS THAT
UPLIFT PEOPLE LIKE SPORTS, THE
OLYMPICS AND THE WORLD CUP.
AND ALSO THERE ARE THINGS THAT
CAN WORRY PEOPLE LIKE THE EBOLA
OUTBREAK AND STUFF LIKE THAT SO
THERE'S DIFFERENT TYPES.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT YOU
SHAYLA, DOES THE NEWS MAKE YOU
FEEL BETTER OR MORE ANXIOUS
ABOUT THE WORLD?
>> A LITTLE OF BOTH, BUT
PROBABLY MORE ANXIOUS BECAUSE
THERE ARE SOME PRETTY TERRIBLE
THINGS THAT WENT ON.
THE EBOLA OUTBREAK LIKE EVAN
SAID AND THE SHOOTING IN
MISSOURI.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU THINK HOW
YOU CONSUME NEWS WILL CHANGE
FROM YOUR PARENTS AND DO YOU
THINK THAT WILL CHANGE WHEN
YOU'RE THEIR AGE?
OR DO YOU THINK IT WILL STAY THE
WAY IT IS?
>> I THINK IT WILL STAY THE WAY
IT IS.
I WATCH NEWS SHOWS WITH THEM,
BUT MY MAIN WAY IS THROUGH APPS
SO I THINK I'LL STICK WITH THAT.
>> Woodruff: RONA, WHAT ABOUT
YOU?
DO YOU THINK ITS GOING TO STAY
LIKE THIS OR THE WAY YOU GET
NEWS NOW AS YOU GROW UP?
>> I THINK IT WILL CHANGE
BECAUSE AS TIME GOES BY,
NEWSPAPER, MAYBE IT WILL JUST BE
GONE AND MAYBE IT WILL BE
REPLACED BY JUST ONLINE MEDIA.
>> Woodruff: CHANGING FAST.
>> IT WILL CHANGE.
>> Woodruff: MARK EATON YOU GET
THE LAST WORD AS THE TEACHER.
DO YOU SEE THIS YOUNGER
GENERATION CHANGING THE WAY
EVERYBODY CONSUMES NEWS IN THE
FUTURE?
>> I THINK SO, BUT I WOULDN'T
HAZARD A PREDICTION.
I THINK THINGS WILL BE DIFFERENT
BUT WE DON'T KNOW HOW.
>> Woodruff: I THINK THAT'S A
VERY WISE WAY TO WRAP IT UP.
MARK EATON, WHO IS THE TEACHER
OF THIS JOURNALISM CLASS AT T.C.
WILLIAMS HIGH SCHOOL.
SHALYA BROWN, EVAN WILLIAMS AND
RONA IKRAM PUTRI WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THIS CONVERSATION
IS PART OF OUR AMERICAN GRADUATE
PROJECT, A PUBLIC MEDIA
INITIATIVE FUNDED BY THE
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC
BROADCASTING.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY TONIGHT,
WHAT DO POLITICIANS SAY WHEN
THEY NO LONGER ARE RUNNING FOR
OFFICE?
YESTERDAY WE FEATURED AN EXIT
INTERVIEW WITH CONSERVATIVE
SENATOR SAXBY CHAMBLISS OF
GEORGIA.
TONIGHT, WE BRING YOU A
CONVERSATION GWEN IFILL HAD WITH
A MAN KNOWN AS ONE OF THE MOST
LIBERAL MEMBERS IN CONGRESS,
RETIRING CALIFORNIA
REPRESENTATIVE GEORGE MILLER.
>> Ifill: CONGRESSMAN MILLER,
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO SAY,
AFTER 39 IN CONGRESS, YOU STAYED
TOO LONG.
BUT WHY LEAVE NOW?
>> WELL, I FELT IT WAS A GOOD
TIME.
I WANTED SOME OF MY TIME BACK.
I WANTED TO COME HOME TO
CALIFORNIA, AND I THINK I'VE
AMASSED A RECORD IN CONGRESS
THAT I'M VERY, VERY PROUD OF.
SO IT JUST FELT LIGHT, AFTER
40 -- IT FELT RIGHT, AFTER 40
YEARS, IT'S TIME TO GO HOME.
>> Ifill: YOU ARRIVED IN
WASHINGTON IN 1974.
YOU AND HENRY WAXMAN ARE PART OF
A LAST OF A CLASS OF POST-WATER
GATE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WHO
CAME TO THE CITY TO CHANGE
CONGRESS AND THE WORLD.
BOTH OF YOU ARE NOW RETIRING
THIS YEAR.
DID YOU ACCOMPLISH WHAT YOU SET
OUT TO DO?
>> WELL, I ACCOMPLISHED A BIG
PART OF IT.
WHEN I THINK OF THE LEGISLATION
THAT I HAD THE PRIVILEGE OF
BEING INVOLVED WITH, IN SOME
CASES WRITING THAT BECAME LAW,
THE ACCESS FOR CHILDREN WITH
DISABILITIES TO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
IN THIS COUNTRY WHERE MANY
STATES WEREN'T HONORING THE
RIGHTS OF DISABLED CHILDREN TO
BE ABLE TO GO TO SCHOOL, THE
RIGHTS OF PARENTS AND
COMMUNITIES AND OTHERS TO KNOW
HOW THEIR SCHOOLS ARE PERFORMING
AND THEIR CHILDREN ARE DOING,
THE N NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND LAW I
WROTE WITH PRESIDENT BUSH, AND
CERTAINLY THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT THAT WE DID UNDER PRESIDENT
BARACK OBAMA.
YOU KNOW, 40 YEARS AGO, I
CAMPAIGNED ON NATIONAL
HEALTHCARE AND ENDING THE WAR IN
VIETNAM.
WHEN THAT BILL WAS SIGNED INTO
LAW BY THE PRESIDENT AND I'M IN
THAT ROOM, IT STARTED TO LOOK TO
ME LIKE I HAD REACHED THE TOP OF
WHAT I CAME HERE TO DO.
SO IT'S BEEN A WONDERFUL,
WONDERFUL CAREER.
I'VE LOVED EVERY MOMENT OF IT.
EVERY MOMENT OF IT.
>> Ifill: HAVE YOU
ACCOMPLISHED ALL YOU SET OUT TO
DO -- IF YOU'VE ACCOMPLISHED ALL
YOU SET OUT TO DO, THE THINGS
YOU NAMED, ARE THESE THINGS YOU
THINK A CONGRESS AS IT IS MADE
UP NOW COULD ACCOMPLISH?
>> THIS IS A MUCH MORE DIFFICULT
ENVIRONMENT.
BUT I'M AN OPTIMIST, YOU HAVE TO
BE IF YOU'RE IN CONGRESS, AND I,
IN FACT, BELIEVE IT'S STARTING
TO TURN.
I THINK -- YOU KNOW, I'M NOT
HAPPY WITH THE REPUBLICAN
TAKEOVER IN THE SENATE, BUT THEY
NOW OWN THE CONGRESS IN THAT
SENSE AND I THINK THEY'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO MEET THE
RESPONSIBILITIES AND THE
EXPECTATIONS OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
I THINK, TO GET THAT DONE,
'RPARTNER, JUST AS I HAD TO
PARTNER WITH REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTS AND CHAIRMEN AND
REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP TO GET THE
THINGS DONE THAT I WANTED TO GET
DONE.
SO I REALLY THINK THIS MAY BE
THE BEGINNING OF A NEW CHAPTER
THE CONGRESSIONAL DIARIES, IF
YOU WILL.
>> Ifill: WE TALKED TO
CONGRESSMAN -- SENATOR SAXBY
CHAMBLISS WHO IS RETIRING AND
TALKED ABOUT BIPARTISANSHIP AS
WELL.
WHO WOULD YOU SAY YOU WOULD NEED
TO REACH ACROSS THE AISLE AND
WORK WITH.
>> I HAVE BEEN ABLE TO WORK WITH
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EDUCATION
COMMITTEE, CONGRESSMAN KLEIN
FROM MINNESOTA.
WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO REPORT
LEGISLATION TO THE FLOOR.
CONTROVERSIAL LEGISLATION TOW
WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO REPORT
THE FLOOR AND GET IT TO THE
CONTROVERSIAL LEGISLATION TOW
PRESIDENT'S DESK, AND I THINK IT
THE FLOOR AND GET IT TO THE
WAS VERY DIFFICULT THE FIRST 18
PRESIDENT'S DESK, AND I THINK IT
MONTHS, BUT THE LAST SIX MONTHS
WAS VERY DIFFICULT THE FIRST 18
I THINK THERE'S A RECOGNITION
MONTHS, BUT THE LAST SIX MONTHS
THAT ALL MEMBERS OF CONGRESS ARE
I THINK THERE'S A RECOGNITION
ACCOUNTABLE FOR THE CONGRESS
THAT ALL MEMBERS OF CONGRESS ARE
DOING ITS JOB AND I THINK IF YOU
ACCOUNTABLE FOR THE CONGRESS
WANT TO PUSH THAT OFF AND SAY
DOING ITS JOB AND I THINK IF YOU
THE TEA PARTY OR THIS PERSON
WANT TO PUSH THAT OFF AND SAY
WON'T LET ME DO THE JOB, THAT'S
THE TEA PARTY OR THIS PERSON
NOT GOING TO SELL AT HOME.
WON'T LET ME DO THE JOB, THAT'S
THEY WANT YOU TO COME PRODUCE.
NOT GOING TO SELL AT HOME.
THEY WANT YOU TO PRODUCE ON
THEY WANT YOU TO COME PRODUCE.
THEIR BEHALF.
THEY WANT YOU TO PRODUCE ON
I THINK THE CONGRESS IS GOING TO
THEIR BEHALF.
FEEL THAT HEAT MORE IN THE NEXT
I THINK THE CONGRESS IS GOING TO
CONGRESS THAN THE LAST CUPFUL OF
FEEL THAT HEAT MORE IN THE NEXT
CONGRESSES.
CONGRESS THAN THE LAST CUPFUL OF
>> Ifill: I'M SURE AS YOU KNOW
CONGRESSES.
THERE ARE PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER
>> Ifill: I'M SURE AS YOU KNOW
PARTY WHO SAY THINGS LIKE
THERE ARE PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER
SINGLE-PARTY PASSAGE OF THE
PARTY WHO SAY THINGS LIKE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WHICH IS ONE
SINGLE-PARTY PASSAGE OF THE
OF YOUR PROUDEST ACCOMPLISHMENTS
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WHICH IS ONE
OR THE PRESIDENT'S ORDER ON
OF YOUR PROUDEST ACCOMPLISHMENTS
EXECUTIVE ACTION HAVE POISONED
OR THE PRESIDENT'S ORDER ON
THE WATER AND MADE IT HARDER FOR
EXECUTIVE ACTION HAVE POISONED
BIPARTISAN ACTION.
THE WATER AND MADE IT HARDER FOR
>> I THINK THAT'S AN EXCUSE, NOT
BIPARTISAN ACTION.
REALITY.
>> I THINK THAT'S AN EXCUSE, NOT
THE CONGRESS IS A PLACE WHERE
REALITY.
YOU WEAR LONG PANTS, BELTS AND
THE CONGRESS IS A PLACE WHERE
SUSPENDERS AN GO TO WORK EVERY
YOU WEAR LONG PANTS, BELTS AND
DAY AND FIGURE OUT HOW TO GET
SUSPENDERS AN GO TO WORK EVERY
THINGS DONE.
DAY AND FIGURE OUT HOW TO GET
YOU CAN'T LAMENT WHAT HAPPENED
THINGS DONE.
FIVE YEARS AGO, THREE YEARS AGO,
YOU CAN'T LAMENT WHAT HAPPENED
SIX MONTHS AGO.
FIVE YEARS AGO, THREE YEARS AGO,
YOU HAVE TO GET THESE THINGS
SIX MONTHS AGO.
DONE.
YOU HAVE TO GET THESE THINGS
THAT'S WHAT THE PEOPLE CHARGED
DONE.
YOU.
THAT'S WHAT THE PEOPLE CHARGED
THEY CHARGED YOU TO COME TO
YOU.
WASHINGTON AND WORK ON THEIR
THEY CHARGED YOU TO COME TO
BEHALF AND TO DO THAT IN A
WASHINGTON AND WORK ON THEIR
LEGITIMATE FASHION REQUIRES A
BEHALF AND TO DO THAT IN A
BIPARTISAN EFFORT.
LEGITIMATE FASHION REQUIRES A
SOMETIMES THEY WILL CHOOSE TO GO
BIPARTISAN EFFORT.
THE ROAD AND TEST WHETHER THEY
SOMETIMES THEY WILL CHOOSE TO GO
CAN DO IT ALL BY THEMSELVES.
THE ROAD AND TEST WHETHER THEY
THAT'S EXPECTED, TOO.
CAN DO IT ALL BY THEMSELVES.
BUT THE FACT THAT AT THE END OF
THAT'S EXPECTED, TOO.
THE DAY, IF YOU'RE GOING TO
BUT THE FACT THAT AT THE END OF
REALLY REINVEST IN THIS COUNTRY,
THE DAY, IF YOU'RE GOING TO
THE F YOU'RE GOING TO KEEP
REALLY REINVEST IN THIS COUNTRY,
AMERICA IN ITS LEADERSHIP ROLE,
THE F YOU'RE GOING TO KEEP
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO HAVE
AMERICA IN ITS LEADERSHIP ROLE,
THAT BIPARTISAN ADVICE WOULD
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO HAVE
YOU GIVE CITIZENS, VOTERS,
THAT BIPARTISAN ADVICE WOULD
PEOPLE WHO ARE EXASPERATED WITH
YOU GIVE CITIZENS, VOTERS,
CONGRESS, EXASPERATED WITH
PEOPLE WHO ARE EXASPERATED WITH
WASHINGTON, WHAT WOULD YOU SAY
CONGRESS, EXASPERATED WITH
TO THEM AS YOU LEAVE WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON, WHAT WOULD YOU SAY
NOW, LEAVE ALL THIS BEHIND,
TO THEM AS YOU LEAVE WASHINGTON
PRESUMABLY?
NOW, LEAVE ALL THIS BEHIND,
SHOULD THEY JUST THROW UP THEIR
PRESUMABLY?
HANDS AND GIVE UP ON WASHINGTON?
SHOULD THEY JUST THROW UP THEIR
>> NO, ABSOLUTELY NOT.
HANDS AND GIVE UP ON WASHINGTON?
ABSOLUTELY NOT.
>> NO, ABSOLUTELY NOT.
THEY'RE THE SHAREHOLDERS AND
ABSOLUTELY NOT.
WHAT THE ELECTIONS ARE ABOUT IS
THEY'RE THE SHAREHOLDERS AND
HOLDING THE OFFICERS OF THE
WHAT THE ELECTIONS ARE ABOUT IS
ENDEAVOR, IN THIS CASE MEMBERS
HOLDING THE OFFICERS OF THE
OF CONGRESS, ACCOUNTABLE.
ENDEAVOR, IN THIS CASE MEMBERS
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE MORE
OF CONGRESS, ACCOUNTABLE.
AMERICANS GET INVOLVED IN
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE MORE
ELECTIONS.
AMERICANS GET INVOLVED IN
I CAN WE'RE GETTING FEWER VOICES
ELECTIONS.
INVOLVED IN ELECTIONS WITH MORE
I CAN WE'RE GETTING FEWER VOICES
POWER AND I WOULD LIKE TO SEE
INVOLVED IN ELECTIONS WITH MORE
THE PEOPLE COME BACK TO THE
POWER AND I WOULD LIKE TO SEE
ELECTION PROCESS.
THE PEOPLE COME BACK TO THE
IT'S NOT ENOUGH TO SAY THEY'RE
ELECTION PROCESS.
NOT GOD.
IT'S NOT ENOUGH TO SAY THEY'RE
WHAT ROLE DID YOU PLAY IN
NOT GOD.
ELECTING YOUR MEMBER OF
WHAT ROLE DID YOU PLAY IN
CONGRESS, YOUR MEMBER OF THE
ELECTING YOUR MEMBER OF
UNITED STATES SENATE, THE
CONGRESS, YOUR MEMBER OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES?
UNITED STATES SENATE, THE
THAT'S HOW DEMOCRACY SURVIVES IS
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES?
WHEN PEOPLE ARE ENGAGED.
THAT'S HOW DEMOCRACY SURVIVES IS
>> Ifill: YOU WERE TIGHTLY
WHEN PEOPLE ARE ENGAGED.
ALLIED WITH NANCY PELOSI.
>> Ifill: YOU WERE TIGHTLY
AS YOU GO BACK TO YOUR HOME
ALLIED WITH NANCY PELOSI.
DISTRICT, WHAT ADVICE DO YOU
AS YOU GO BACK TO YOUR HOME
LEAVE FOR HER AND OTHER MEMBERS
DISTRICT, WHAT ADVICE DO YOU
OF CONGRESS AS THEY TRY TO DIG
LEAVE FOR HER AND OTHER MEMBERS
THEMSELVES OUT OF THE HOLE OF
OF CONGRESS AS THEY TRY TO DIG
PUBLIC PERCEPTION WE'RE TALKING
THEMSELVES OUT OF THE HOLE OF
ABOUT?
PUBLIC PERCEPTION WE'RE TALKING
>> I THINK THEY'VE GOT TO MAKE
ABOUT?
THEIR OWN WEATHER.
>> I THINK THEY'VE GOT TO MAKE
I THINK IT'S CLEAR IN THIS
THEIR OWN WEATHER.
ELECTION THERE'S GREAT CONCERN
I THINK IT'S CLEAR IN THIS
IN THIS COUNTRY ABOUT THE
ELECTION THERE'S GREAT CONCERN
FAIRNESS OF THE ECONOMY, WHETHER
IN THIS COUNTRY ABOUT THE
OR NOT CONGRESS IS WORKING FOR
FAIRNESS OF THE ECONOMY, WHETHER
AMERICAN FAMILIES, WHETHER OR
OR NOT CONGRESS IS WORKING FOR
NOT THE MIDDLE CLASS WILL BE
AMERICAN FAMILIES, WHETHER OR
ABLE TO PARTICIPATE IN THE
NOT THE MIDDLE CLASS WILL BE
GROWING PROSPERITY IN THIS
ABLE TO PARTICIPATE IN THE
COUNTRY.
GROWING PROSPERITY IN THIS
MUCH OF THE PROSPERITY HAS GROWN
COUNTRY.
FOR A FEW PEOPLE.
MUCH OF THE PROSPERITY HAS GROWN
THERE MAY BE A CHANCE IT COULD
FOR A FEW PEOPLE.
BE SHARED IN A WIDER FASHION.
THERE MAY BE A CHANCE IT COULD
I THINK THAT WILL BE IMPORTANT
BE SHARED IN A WIDER FASHION.
TO AMERICAN FAMILIES.
I THINK THAT WILL BE IMPORTANT
WORKING ALONGSIDE NANCY PELOSI
TO AMERICAN FAMILIES.
IS LIKE WORKING ALONGSIDE VINCE
WORKING ALONGSIDE NANCY PELOSI
LOMBARDI.
IS LIKE WORKING ALONGSIDE VINCE
THIS IS A SERIOUS PERSON WHO
LOMBARDI.
UNDERSTANDS THIS SYSTEM AND HOW
THIS IS A SERIOUS PERSON WHO
IT COULD WORK ON BEHALF OF THE
UNDERSTANDS THIS SYSTEM AND HOW
AMERICAN PEOPLE AND HOW IN FACT
IT COULD WORK ON BEHALF OF THE
IT VERY OFTEN WORKS AGAINST
AMERICAN PEOPLE AND HOW IN FACT
THEIR INTERESTS.
IT VERY OFTEN WORKS AGAINST
I THINK THAT QUESTION IS RISING
THEIR INTERESTS.
TO THE TOP AND I THINK THE
I THINK THAT QUESTION IS RISING
CONGRESS, REGARDLESS OF PARTY,
TO THE TOP AND I THINK THE
IS GOING TO BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE
CONGRESS, REGARDLESS OF PARTY,
FOR THE QUESTION OF WHO'S
IS GOING TO BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE
WORKING ON OUR BEHALF, WHO'S
FOR THE QUESTION OF WHO'S
WORKING ON OUR BEHALF SO MORE OF
WORKING ON OUR BEHALF, WHO'S
US CAN SHARE IN THIS PROSPERITY?
WORKING ON OUR BEHALF SO MORE OF
>> Ifill: GEORGE MILLER,
US CAN SHARE IN THIS PROSPERITY?
RETIRING AFTER FOUR DECADES FROM
>> Ifill: GEORGE MILLER,
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
RETIRING AFTER FOUR DECADES FROM
TNK YHAOU.
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
SEARCH TEAMS FOUND BODIES AND
WRECKAGE FROM AN AIRLINER THAT
DISAPPEARED OFF INDONESIA ON
SUNDAY.
THE PLANE WENT DOWN IN SHALLOW
WATER IN THE JAVA SEA, WITH 162
PEOPLE ON BOARD.
THE CAUSE OF THE CRASH IS STILL
UNKNOWN.
SEVERAL THOUSAND PEOPLE
PROTESTED IN MOSCOW, AGAINST
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN, AFTER A LEADING DISSIDENT
WAS CONVICTED OF FRAUD.
POLICE BROKE UP THE
DEMONSTRATION AFTER ABOUT TWO
HOURS.
AND THE U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL
REJECTED A PALESTINIAN PUSH TO
END ISRAELI CONTROL IN THE WEST
BANK AND EAST JERUSALEM BY 2017.
THE U.S. SIGNALED IT WOULD VETO
THE RESOLUTION IF IT DID PASS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, TAKE A LOOK AT SOME OF THE
MOMENTS CAPTURED BY WHITE HOUSE
PHOTOGRAPHER PETE SOUZA IN 2014.
WE HAVE A PHOTO GALLERY OF SOME
OF THE YOUNGEST AMERICANS WHO
GREETED PRESIDENT OBAMA THIS
YEAR.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, THE UNLIKELY
CONNECTION SHARED BY THE
UNIVERSITY OF OREGON DUCKS AND
THE FLORIDA STATE SEMINOLES WHO
FACE OFF IN THIS WEEK'S ROSE
BOWL.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, WE'LL SEE
YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.